== xl-interpol - String interpolation for xyzzy Lisp

* Home URL: http://miyamuko.s56.xrea.com/xyzzy/xl-interpol/intro.htm
* Version: 1.0.0


=== SYNOPSIS

  (require "xl-interpol")

  (interpol:enable-interpol-syntax)

  (defun greeting (name)
    #?"Hello ${name}!")

  (defun calc-add (a b)
    #?"a = ${a}, b = ${b}, a + b = ${(+ a b)}")

  (defun scan-numbers (str)
    (mapcar #'parse-integer
            (ppcre:all-matches-as-strings #?/\d+/ str)))

  (interpol:disable-interpol-syntax)


  (greeting "xyzzy")
  ;=> "Hello xyzzy!"
  
  (calc-add 1 2)
  ;=> "a = 1, b = 2, a + b = 3"
  
  (scan-numbers "123 foobar 456 hoge")
  ;=> (123 456)


Yahoo Japan! で検索して結果を表示するサンプル

  (require "xl-interpol")
  (require "xl-ppcre")

  (interpol:enable-interpol-syntax)

  (defparameter *yahoo-search-result-scanner*
    (ppcre:create-scanner
     #?rx(                    ; 拡張正規表現
          <div\ class="hd">
          .*?
          <a .*? href="(.*?)" .*? >   # $1 = link
            (.*?)                     # $2 = title
          </a>
          .*?
          <div\ class="bd">
            <p>
              (.*?)                   # $3 = snippet
            </p>
          )
     :case-insensitive-mode t ; タグの大文字小文字の違いは無視
     :single-line-mode t      ; ドットが改行にもマッチするようにする
     ))

  (interpol:disable-interpol-syntax)

  (defun cleanup-text (html)
    (string-trim " \n" (substitute-string html "<[^<>]+>" "")))

  (defun scan-yahoo-search-result (res)
    (let (result)
      (ppcre:do-register-groups (url
                                 (#'cleanup-text title)
                                 (#'cleanup-text snippet))
        (*yahoo-search-result-scanner*
         (xhr:xhr-response-text res)
         (nreverse result))
        (push (list url title snippet) result))))

  (defun yahoo-search (query)
    (xhr:xhr-get "http://search.yahoo.co.jp/search"
                 :query `(:ei "UTF-8" :p ,query)
                 :encoding *encoding-utf8n*
                 :since :epoch
                 :key #'scan-yahoo-search-result
                 ))

  (yahoo-search "cl-ppcre")

=== DESCRIPTION

xl-interpol は {CL-INTERPOL - String interpolation for Common Lisp}[http://weitz.de/cl-interpol/]
を xyzzy に移植したものです。

xl-interpol は以下の機能を提供しています。

* 変数や式を文字列に埋め込める
* 正規表現リテラル

xl-interpol は以下の機能は <b>提供していません</b>。

* ユニコード文字 (\\N{Sigma} など)

=== INSTALL

1. {NetInstaller}[http://www7a.biglobe.ne.jp/~hat/xyzzy/ni.html]
   で xl-interpol, xl-ppcre をインストールします。

2. xl-interpol はライブラリであるため自動的にロードはされません。
   必要な時点で require してください。


=== REFERENCE

パッケージ名は xl-interpol (ニックネームは interpol) です。

詳細は {CL-INTERPOL - String interpolation for Common Lisp}[http://weitz.de/cl-interpol/] を参照してください。


=== TODO

なし。


=== KNOWN BUGS

なし。

要望やバグは
{GitHub Issues}[http://github.com/miyamuko/xl-interpol/issues] か
{@miyamuko}[http://twitter.com/home?status=%40miyamuko%20%23xyzzy%20xl-interpol%3a%20]
まで。


=== AUTHOR

みやむこ かつゆき <mailto:miyamuko@gmail.com>


=== COPYRIGHT

xl-interpol は BSD ライセンスに従って本ソフトウェアを使用、再配布することができます。

  Copyright (c) 2011 MIYAMUKO Katsuyuki.
  Copyright (c) 2003-2008, Dr. Edmund Weitz. All rights reserved.

  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
  are met:

    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
      copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
      disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials
      provided with the distribution.

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR 'AS IS' AND ANY EXPRESSED
  OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
  WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
  ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY
  DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
  DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE
  GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
  INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
  WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
  NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
  SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
